Dear (Client to contact),
Thank you for providing us the datasets from Sprocket Central Pty Ltd. The summary table below
highlights key quality issues that we discovered within the datasets. Please let us know if you have
any queries regarding the issues presented.




Summary Table:




	Accuracy
	Completeness
	Consistency
	Currency
	Relevancy
	Validity
	Transactions
	Profit: Missing
	

	

	

	Canceled Status Order: Filter Out
	List Price: Format
Standard Cost: Format
Product First Sold Date: Format
	Customer Address
	

	

	States:
inconsistency
	

	

	

	Customer Demographic
	Age : Missing
	LastName: Incomplete
Job Title: Null Values
DOB: Null Values
	Gender: Inconsistency
	Deceased: Filter Out
	Default Column: Delete
	DOB: Format
	





Below are more in depth descriptions of data quality issues discovered and method of mitigation
used. Recommendations and explanations are provided to avoid future data quality issues. Following
recommendations will improve accuracy of data used to influence business decisions of Sprocket
Central Pty Ltd in future.
Accuracy Issues
  Missing a profit column in “Transactions”; Missing Age column In “Customer
  Demographic” 
  Recommendations: Create profit column in “Transactions” to check accuracy of sales.
  Create Age column to check errors more accurately in “Customer Demographic”.


Completeness Issues
•Blank and Null Values in “Job Title”, “DOB” and “LastName” in “Customer Demographic”
Mitigation: Filter out all Blank and Null values
Recommendations: Ensure values are filled in properly. For our model, only rows with complete values will be used for analysis


The data received may not be in sync across all spreadsheets, with incomplete data, the
analysis results may be skyed. This is a “completeness” issue, to prevent future occurrences,
it is encouraged to cross check the spreadsheets and sync data.


Consistency Issues
• Inconsistency in gender for “Customer Demographic” And States in “Customer Address” respectively
Mitigation: Filter all ‘M’ under ‘Male’ and all ‘Femal’ and ‘F’ under ‘Female’ for gender. Filter
all ‘New South Whale’ to ‘NSW’ and ‘Victoria’ to ‘VIC’ for states.
Recommendations: Create dropdown options for ‘Male’, ‘Female’ and ‘U’ for gender. Create
dropdown option for all state abbreviations. 


Currency
• People that are ‘Y’ in deceased_indicator for “Customer Demographic” are not
current customers.
Mitigation: filter out customers which are checked as ‘Y’ in “Customer Demographic”
Recommendations: Once this information is received, one must update data accordingly. 


Deceased customers are not current customers, removing them from data will increase
currency of data and will result in more accurate estimates in future analysis.




Relevancy
• Lack of relevancy in default column for “Customer Demographic” and order status
for “Transactions”
Mitigation: Filter out canceled orders_status. Deleted metadata in default_column
Recommendations: Check for incomprehensible Metadata and delete or format to make
comprehensible.
“Canceled” order_status is irrelevant information for future analysis as it can skew data –
for example total number of customers per annum will be an overestimate.


Validity
 Format of list_price; product_sold_date for “Transaction”
Mitigations: Format product_sold_date to short data format; format list_price to currency
Recommendations: Set up columns so that formats such as price and decimals are already in
place when entering new data.
Moving forward, the team will continue with the data cleaning, standardization and transformation
process for the purpose of model analysis. Questions will be raised along the way and assumptions
documented. After we have completed this, it would be great to spend some time with your data
SME to ensure that all assumptions are aligned with Sprocket Central’s understanding.




Kind regards,
Tobi Oloyede.